# SPOT
 
Study-Plan Organizational Tool (SPOT) is a tool that helps students and academic advisors plan for the student roadmap to graduation while spotting any violation to the graduation requirements. To facilitate the process a smart tool is needed to make the students able to change their plans easily and try different scenarios that can lead to graduation smoothly, to be able to see the big picture and choose the most suitable course plan depending on their needs. SPOT should be able to assist students to plan for completing their program/concentration requirements, and to plan for any needed changes (repeating a course, changing majors, postponing courses, adding Minors, adding extra courses, etc). Validating students' plans according to UST rules and graduation requirements can be done in real-time and/or after the student finishes his/her planning. 

We are required to implement a Study-Plan Organizational Tool (SPOT). In our implementation, we must use object-oriented programming principles implemented using C++. Our application should help students and academic advisors to put a robust plan that matches their needs till graduation. The tool should start by an initial/suggested roadmap input from the user in the form of text or excel sheet, and then the student can change it as needed and can keep checking the validity of the plan till reaching the final plan. The tool should validate the roadmap feasibility by running checks based on UST rules and regulations. The tool should be user-friendly where the user can change the plan by dragging and dropping the selected courses. 

